[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the morning,
you're still in bed.
So we are very tranquil.
Your body is de-tensed
up till the tissue.
Then you're without
food in the body.
So the body's chemistry
is not into working.
It's not digesting the energy.
It's not concentrated
over there.
It's able to flow through that.
So if you're doing
a breathing exercise
and you can shelter
yourself from being acidic,
because as the night goes on,
all kinds of acidic elements
come out of your body.
They get into your system.
You see yourself being
acidic when you rise.
Within 20 minutes
of this breathing,
you will be able to become
completely alkaline.
And that makes you very
much better performing
during the day, very
much more in control
at will over your
mood and energy.
We only need to do
this breathing, just
deeper breathing.
And sometimes a cold
shower is stimulating
the vascular system, which
is the transportation system.
And it brings about
energizing elements
inside the body called
oxygen. And it brings it
to the immune cells.
And then the immune
cells are awake.
When you have these temperature
differences, people get a cold.
And it's only because
you're not adapting directly
toward that change, because
your immune cells are not
really active.
They are a little bit,
because of the comfort,
like a muscle non-trained.
It doesn't know
how to handle it.
So what we do with
the cold shower
is alerting the immune cells by
alerting the vascular system.
It's 75,000 miles
inside of each of us,
full of reflexes and
primitive muscles.
They are being exercised
by the cold shower.
Then the heart rate
goes down, because it
doesn't need to compensate the
loss of the vascular system
to transport oxygen and the
right nutrients in the body.
So stress hormone is less.
And why?
Because the heart rate goes
down to its natural status.
It's far too high.
And it's creating
stress in the body.
It's alarming for a
heart which goes--
trying to compensate
the blood flow through,
because all these little muscles
and reflexes of the 75,000
miles are not working together
with the heart, lazybones.
Then the heart is
trying to compensate.
It creates a signal to the
brain stem, the primitive brain,
the reptilian brain, hey, there
is danger, stress hormone.
And that stress
hormone is constantly
in the modern man, woman,
human in society present.
And it keeps the
sympathetic nervous system,
the action going.
On the cell level,
there is no peace.
There is no rest, which it needs
to rehabilitate for its energy
to store up energy.
Thus we get defense
systems of ours,
they become lower, because
they have no energy.
And we are working ourselves
even to burnout and fatigue.
Very important that
the defense system--
it needs energy.
And we have all the
systems to do that.
But we do not
breathe well enough.
And that's why it
doesn't get the oxygen.
And then all these processes
like aerobic dissimulation,
they don't happen.
And then the defense
systems, of course,
are not accurate toward its
ability to fend off disease,
to adapt to any danger, not
only the cold but also to virus.
We got all these.
We are exposed to all the
time to bacteria, viruses,
and [INAUDIBLE].
But if the defense
system is right,
then there is no
danger whatsoever.
And we got it all in our hands.
And we can feel when we
become a little bit awkward,
like getting towards
sickness or flu
or fever or any other disease,
like autoimmune and all.
We can feel it.
But we lost this
contact within to deal
with that at that moment.
We take it for granted.
And we keep on in our rat race.
And we do not know how
to stand still and become
aware of our physiology
at that moment to maintain
happy, strong, and healthy.
We just know it.
But now we got it.
So comfort, real comfort is
the confidence and the strength
and the happiness within and
maintaining it at any time.
Be the master of yourself.
And that feels good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]